Basic Idea/Logic of this project.

There is a church called The Apostolic Church in Ghana. This church is structured into levels; National, Area, District and Local/Assembly. Where Locals/Assemblies is the actual church(example; Ayiresu, Central, Maranatha) where people worship, District is the administration that covers particular set of locals. Example; Jei-Krodua(Jei-Krodua is my district but there are other districts such as Silom, K2, Ofaankor and many more). Area is the administration that covers particular set of Districts such as Jei-Krodua and  Ofaankor. Lastly,  National are the executives in charge of the church across Ghana, the head, and the administrations that covers the all the Area. Also, information and rules is passed down in the order that i have said(National - Area - District -Assembly/Local). Also, the church has an online website system called TACMS(The Apostolic Church Management System) that administrators can use to manage members, souls, transactions, projects, and many more scoped to the level they are in. TACMS recognize every member by their membership IDs only and the ID is unique and it is assigned by the TACMS immediately after registering the member on TACMS. Now, per the Church rules, every Sunday, the administrator of the local/assembly must record the tithes of every member who was present in their local/assembly Tithe Books (these members are called tithers). (see these images: W:\CodeDeX\TACTMS\AboutThisAPP\20250628_083713.jpg
W:\CodeDeX\TACTMS\AboutThisAPP\20250704_164252.jpg
W:\CodeDeX\TACTMS\AboutThisAPP\20250704_164300.jpg
W:\CodeDeX\TACTMS\AboutThisAPP\20250803_164617.jpg  for clarity how the tithe book is designed.).  Now. I, CodeDeX happen to be in Jei-Krodua District. I am now the District Administrator at District level. I am entitled to records the tithes amount/transaction from the Tithe books of each assembly to TACMS.  I have decided to create this project called TACTMS (The Apostolic Church Tithe Made Simple) to make the process easy. Since TACMS has no API logic, I rely on the 2 excel files ( Lets call them A.xlsx (W:\CodeDeX\TACTMS\AboutThisAPP\A.xlsx) and B(W:\CodeDeX\TACTMS\AboutThisAPP\B.xlsx)). There is also a Markdown and pdf version (A.md, B.md, A.pdf, B.pdf) for easier understanding that TACMS makes it possible to download. Even though, TACMS only accepts one of the files (B.xlsx) as a ready, dated Sunday tithers to be processed.  The A, excel file which is raw data and includes marital status, type of marriage, age, Gender and many more for the members. this  raw excel file is actually the membership details. The B excel file  has payment method, transaction amount, narration/description, and so on. Note: the B excel structure is the only excel file TACMS acknowledges and receives to process the alerts therefore  it is the exact excel structure TACTMS(our project) needs to produce in our final export (Download Excel) which means TACTMS must see to it that only after the  Transaction Amount(since the rest are all the same except the "Transaction Date ('DD-MMM-YYYY)" which will use the selected Sunday date and the "Narration/Description" which will be populated with "Tithe for 'the  selected date' like: Tithe for 02-NOV-2025) is entered/populated,  that it can final export(Download excel). Also in the A, there  is "membership number(TAC89JAM131001)", " old membership number(651101008)" , "Title(PASTOR)", "First Name(JONATHAN)", "Surname(ADDO)", "other name(MENSAH)" but notice how  for the B, we have "Membership Number(PASTOR JONATHAN ADDO MENSAH (TAC89JAM131001|651101008))" which is simply achieved by concatenating "membership number(TAC89JAM131001)", " old membership number(651101008)" , "Title(PASTOR)", "First Name(JONATHAN)", "Surname(ADDO)", "other name(MENSAH)" from the A with only the Membership  and the old membership number  separated by "|".  Note: The Old Membership Number (651101008) is the old way of assigning IDs to registered members but after TACMS upgrade, it introduced the new (Membership Number (TAC89JAM131001)) but it didn't abandoned the old membership number, it just separated it with "|" that is why you will see some members with both (TAC89JAM131001|651101008). Also, the least compulsory requirements for registering members on TACMS to qualify for the membership number assigning are First Name, Surname and date of birth.  then TACMS will automatically assign Membership number(TAC89JAM131001).
Even though TACMS does a lot, I want my project(TACTMS) for be easier and more friendly.
The ability to accept both A.xlsx and B.xlsx files
The intelligent ability to distinguish between those two files types.
To  guess the assembly a given excel file belongs to.
The intelligent logic when it receives either A or B.
The intelligent ability to be aware of the order of the members in the various tithe books of a particular year and persist it.
The intelligent ability to accept a picture/image of the tithe book and automatically prepare the B.xlsx version ready for download/export.


Any other logic you see in this code is for the betterment of this project can be continue here. Thank you.
